Okay, so we're continuing on from
the previous video on abstraction,
and we created various
examples of abstract classes.
And it's now actually a good time
to bring up what is the difference
between using an abstract class and
an interface, and how do you actually
go about deciding which one to use.
Once again as we've done in previous
videos, we need to consider
the relationships, the relationships
is our, versus has our, or can.
For example a dog is an animal,
and a bird is an animal.
That makes sense to inherit
from an animal class,
rather than implementing
an actual animal interface.
A parrot is a bird, so
can you inherent from a bird based class?
We've actually done that.
There's a problem with
this example though.
If you think about it, birds aren't
the only animals that can fly.
Bats are extremely good at it, for
example, and even dragonflies are and
that's just two examples.
But a bat is not a bird though.
To get around that we could rename
our bird class flying animals, and
have bats and bird both inherit from that.
But it should be easy to see the problems
that could potentially cause.
Now, bats give birth to young
rather than laying eggs.
This may lead to having flying
animals being inherited by
classes called mammals and birds.
But not all animals can fly, [LAUGH] and
you can see we rapidly start
to run into difficulties.
All because we actually got
it wrong at the base level.
Where we actually went wrong here
was actually putting the fly
method in the bird class.
We come back here and have a look.
It says we added an abstract
method of fly in the bird class.
A bird can fly and a bat can fly.
A better design would be to have created
a can fly interface, which both bats and
birds can implement.
Lets go ahead and actually do that now.
Create a new class.
It's actually interface, but
we specify that and select Interface.
We're gonna call this can fly.
[SOUND].
That's our interface.
And the interface is going to only
have one method [SOUND], void fly.
Now just a quick note on
talking about interfaces.
I know in the past I've sort of pushed
the fact that they should be called,
the standard is to call them I can fly.
But you will actually see examples
of that, certainly in Java code, but
you see a lot of examples where they don't
actually have that same naming convention.
And one might think of an interface,
is to name it what it is.
So in other words in this case
it's the can fly interface,
is not the i can fly interface,
if that makes sense.
One of the reasons that programmers in
the past prefixed things with an i for
an interface, for example,
was for easy identification.
But these days, with IntelliJ you
can see there it's clearly shown in
green to the left hand side
there that it's an interface.
You don't really have to guess that.
For that reason,
it's probably better that's a rule,
to not actually put the i there.
Because in many cases, it's just adding
extra sort of fluff to your code.
It's not adding anything productive and
it could potentially be
making code harder to read.
Probably go against what I said before and
don't use i in
front of interfaces unless you've got
a really good reason for doing it.
Okay so
created that interface now called can fly.
I would guess you go back
to our bird abstract class.
Extending animals still.
That stays the same.
But we now implements [SOUND], can fly.
Like so.
And what we do is we get rid of
the abstract method for fly.
[SOUND].
And instead we actually override that or
we actually implement that.
[SOUND].
From the can fly interface like so.
And we would implement it, we put
get name plus is flapping its wings.
[SOUND].
Getting back to our parrot class,
we go back there again,
we can actually delete this method now,
flitting from branch to branch,
because it's now gonna be
inherited from bird automatically.
[SOUND].
And also then looking at penguin, it
actually makes sense to override that and
leave that overridden.
And the reason for that is we wanna
implement some specific functionality for
the penguin class.
Now if we wanted to [SOUND], we could
also call the super dot fly as well.
And we go back to our main class and
run this.
You can see the emperor is flapping its
wings, I'm not very good at that kind of
reference instead, and the argument for
actually leaving the super dot fly in for
the penguin is that the penguin has
actually got those little wings that it
can flap, but
obviously it can't actually fly.
It doesn't get very far, so
we can have a bat class, and
a dragon fly class that inherit
from a suitable base class, and
both could then implement
the can fly interface.
They can say that by adding
the interface in this case,
the can fly interface, we're actually
adding more flexibility into the design,
to enable us to create other classes,
and we're not gonna fall.
Victim to the potential problems
you would have had trying to get
everything to fit into the one
class as we did earlier
in this video as i discussed
early in this video.
Now looking at animal you might actually
argue that an animal can breath and
can eat.
That they should be
implemented as interfaces.
And absolutely that could actually work.
You could actually do that but as these
methods are really common to all animals
it makes sense to include them
in the base abstract class.
And let later classes implement them.
In other words an official implement
behave differently to a dog, so
they remain as abstract methods.
That's the reason why I
suggest you leave that there.
It really comes down to each
sort of function of your class,
as to deciding whether you
created an interface for it.
Or whether it should be an abstract method
as the case here is for both the eat and
breathe methods in the animal class.
And just to summarize the differences
again between an abstract class and
an interface.
An abstract class can have member
variables that are inherited,
something that can't be done in interface.
Now interfaces can have variables, but
they're all public static final variables,
which essentially are gonna be constant
values that should never change,
with a static scope.
They have to be static, because non
static variables require an instance, and
of course,
you can't instantiate an interface.
Interfaces also cannot have constructors,
but abstract classes can, as you've
actually seen in this example, and you can
see it in the example on the screen now.
We've got a constructor there.
Now, all methods over the interface
are automatically public.
Whereas the methods of an abstract
class can have any visibility.
Private, protected, etcetera.
Abstract classes can have defined methods,
ie methods with an implementation.
And you can see that on the screen
there with the get name.
Whereas all methods in
an interface are abstract.
Of course there's no codes in
abstract methods, all the actual code
has to be actually written in the class
that implements the particular interface.
As you can see, the animal class
implemented the get name method.
And as a result, that code does
not have to be reproduced in all
classes that inherit
from this abstract class.
Okay, so It's time for a challenge, what
I'm going to do is I'm going to copy and
paste in the challenge,
because it's quite a big one.
And then we'll actually pause the video,
and then we'll actually come back and
implement the challenge
itself in the next video.
I'm going to go to my main method and
I'm going to paste some coding.
Okay, so
I'm going to past the coding okay.
Let's go ahead and look at this, now.
This is the challenge.
I'm gonna get you to create an abstract
class which is gonna define items that can
be stored in a list.
Now the class should contain two
references to items, which are gonna
represent the next and previous items,
which is the case for a linked list.
So if you call your abstract class list
item, then it will have two member
variables of type list item that will hold
references to the next, or right, and
previous, which is left, list items.
Now, the abstract class will
also need to hold a value.
Try and be as flexible as possible when
defining the type of this value and
the class loss [INAUDIBLE] methods
to move to the next item and
back to the previous item and also methods
to set the next and the previous items.
Now you should also specify,
compare two method that takes a parameter
of the same type of the class and
returns zero.
If the values are equal, greater than
zero, if the value sorts greater than
the parameter and less than zero,
you've got sorts less than the parameter.
Create a concrete class from your
abstract list item class and
use it in a link list class to implement
a linked list that will add items in order
so that they are sorted alphabetically.
Duplicate values are not added.
Now, note that you're creating
your own linked list class here,
not using the built in Java one.
The rules for actually adding an item to
the link list here are if the head of
the list is nul make the head
refer to the item to be added.
If the item to be added is less
than the current item in the list,
add the item before the current item.
In other words,
make the previous items next.
Refer to the new item.
And the new item's next to
refer to the current item.
And if the item to be added is
greater than the current item,
move on to the next item and
compare it again.
If there is no next item,
then that is where the new item belongs.
Care needs to be taken when inserting
an item before the first item in the list.
Because this obviously
won't have a previous item,
so you'll need to actually test for
that scenario.
And you'll also need a method
to remove an item from the list.
And just as a hint here,
if you're creating classes with names such
as list, linked list, and node etcetera,
make sure you create your classes
before referring to them.
In previous videos we've often
referred to classes we create later.
But for use names that InteliJ
recognizes as Java classes,
such as link list, then it will create
imports for them automatically and
possibly cause you problems later, so.
Probably a better way is to actually don't
use identical names to list the link
list, etcetera.
Then you won't run into that scenario.
But if you aren't going to do that make
sure you create to avoid that problem.
Now an optional task is to create a class
that uses your concrete class to implement
a binary search tree.
When adding items to a binary search tree,
if the item to be added is less than the
current item, then move to the left, and
if it's greater than the current item,
move to the right.
The new item itself is added when an
attempt to move in the required direction
would involve following a nul reference.
Once again, duplicates aren't allowed.
And another hint here is to avoid
typing lots of add item lines.
Split a string into an array,
and create your list in a loop
as in the example below,
which I'm about to paste in.
And just a note about binary search trees,
we've only talked about that a little bit.
This would be your case to actually
go away and actually research
binary search trees, which are very
similar to linked lists, but they've
got a couple of key differences if you
wanna actually take up the optional task.
You'll actually learn
a lot in the process,
but in any event you'll actually
see the answer to that with
the solution to the challenge
that I've actually created.
So let me just paste in that code now,
which will help you from
typing lots of add item lines.
And you can see in this scenario here
we've got a string containing all of
the data we want added separated by space.
We can use this dot split
function of a string.
In which case the delimiter the character
that we want to split is with a space.
What will happen is automatically we'll
actually get an array of strings which
contain an entry for each item.
And then we can just use a folic to
just go through the actual list,
we can go through all the strings
in that array and process them,
whatever you wanna do, one at a time.
That's just a bit of a shortcut there.
All right, so I know that sounds like a
lot of work, but a lot of this stuff we've
actually worked on or pretty well all
of it we've worked on previous videos.
It's building on the knowledge that
you've built up over this course.
So, go away and see how you get on, and
see if you can come up with
a solution to this In the next video,
I'll actually show you the solution,
my solution that I've come up with it.
And you can compare it to yours then.
So, I'll see you in that next video.